Hi, in this video we're gonna make
this interface here where you're able
to manage the users permissions.
So there's a lot really going on here
because we've got.
First of all, we need a new query to fetch all of the users
and their permissions and then second we need a new mutation
which will allow the user to update it.
And at the same time, we also need to you check if the user
who is updating permissions has the permission
to update permissions like, what!
This is gonna be cyclical, so hold on.
Let's kind of break it down into a couple things.
So first thing we wanna do is let's just get a list of users
and their respective permissions,
showing up on the page here.
So, that's going to be a new query
and we're gonna do that on the back end.
So let's open up our schema.
Let's go to our query and we're just going to say,
we want a new query called users.
And that is going to return an array of users
or user sorry, and then we're gonna have a bang on the end.
The reason why we have a bang here is
that the array itself is required to be returned,
but the array might be empty.
So we're not going to make the actual user itself a query
because then you could run into issues
where there's no users in your database
or your specific filter, it returns no one.
And we do want it to return an empty array.
Then what do you do when you modify your schema?
You set up a resolver.
So let's open up our query.js.
This is that, we haven't done much work in here.
A lot of our stuff has been done
in the mutation.js of writing resolvers.
But now we're flipping over to query.js right here.
And lets say we have our me showing up here.
So we're gonna make a new one called users,
and that's going to be a sync,
and inside of that we have parent,
our args, our context, and our info.
Then inside of that, we really just need to do two things.
First, check if the user has the permissions
to query all the users.
Because we don't want anyone just come into our API
and running a query and getting the user's email address
and their cards and anything like that.
And second thing what we want to do is
if they do query all the users.
So, first thing I'm gonna do is check
if they're logged in actually.
So, one is check if they are logged in
and then two is check if they have any questions.
So if there's no ctx.requests.
.userid
then somebody just throw a new error in
and this is something we've done three or four times.
Now you could probably refactor this out
into a separate function that says is logged in.
That will check, that we'll take in the request
and check for a user ID.
But it's fairly simple, so I don't mind keeping
it as explicit right here.
So throw a new error, you must be logged in.
Okay.
Then and what we're going to do is check if the user
has a permission.
So if you open up this utils.js file in the source folder.
You see I gave you this little function called
has permission.
And the reason why I've given you this
is because it's a little bit complicated.
Because you might have like a user
which looks like something like this,
or you have the name is Wes.
And the permissions on that user are going
to be something like admin and item update.
Right, those are the two permissions that that user has.
But then you also wanna like check,
if they have any of these.
And we wanna check, do they have permission update or admin?
Right, so we're not checking if they have all of these,
we're just checking like,
is there any overlap between what they have?
and what we're looking for, right?
Because we only need them to have one.
So, what we do here is we make this function
that takes in the user and takes in an array of permissions
that are needed.
And then we filter the users permissions to see if any of
them match the ones that we're specifically looking for.
So we loop over every single permission and we say,
is the permission that is needed included
in the permission that they have?
If so, put it in the array and if that array has no length
at the end of the day, meaning that they have no permissions
we just throw an error.
And I'd like to do this for debugging purposes,
is show the permissions that are needed,
and show the permissions that the user has.
And then that will give us a little bit of a more visual
look into it.
And otherwise, we don't do anything.
And no error we'll be thrown
and that function will just will not return anything
and then we 'll just keep going.
So what we want to do, is go back to our query digest
and import that.
So, we're going to say const has permissions
is equal to require, utils
and we'll take that has permissions function
and go down here.
So we'll just say has permissions
request.ctx.request.user
and we're going to check if they either
have the admit privilege,
or, or and/or the permission update.
Because we don't want to show them this unless
they're able to actually update it.
And then that if that is fine
then it'll keep going if it's not it'll throw an error
and we'll be able to display that on the client side.
And then finally if they are requiring all the users,
so finally we can just return ctx.db.users.
And we can pass an empty where object
because we just want to query all of the users.
And then we just pass the info
and again the info is going to include the graph QL query
that contains the fields that we're requesting
from the front end.
So that looks pretty good.
Now what we want to do, is flip over to our front end
and see if it even works.
So let's go back to our front end here.
Let's create a new page called permissions.
So not in the components folder in the pages folder.
Js, its gonna take all the code from sell.js.
Paste it into my permissions
and then just start deleting stuff.
So I don't need that.
We can keep the place sign-in and inside of here.
We're just going to put a paragraph as permissions
and we'll rename this component to permissions.
Looking good.
So if we go back to our application
and go to four slash permissions,
doesn't work cause I got to start my app.
Moreover here I'll check it, oh.
I think I goofed up another thing on my back-end.
Do I not know how spell require?
Probably screaming at me, and we see
that we have our permissions page popping up.
Good, and then let's go ahead
and make a permissions component cause we didn't.
You never really wanna do a whole bunch of work
on a specific page, not to put everything in
its own component.
So I'm gonna flip over to the front end here.
Go to my components and create a new one called
capital P permissions.
JS and we're gonna import query from react-apollo.
I'm gonna make our permissions component.
And then inside of that, we want a query component
that takes in a query called all users query.
We haven't written that yet but we will in just a second.
Inside of that, we'll give ourselves the
brackets of death.
Just paragraph hey and inside of there
it will have data loading an error.
Up here will import the error from
error message
and will render out the error.
Aah!
I'm gonna wrap that in a div
and put the arrow inside of that
and the paragraph just says hey.
All right we got to export default permissions,
and then we'll go back to our permissions page
and import the permissions component.
So import permissions from
then render out instead of a paragraph.
Let's render out the permissions
component.
All right, so what do we got going on here?
Duplicate declaration permission.
Okay, cause you can't import a component
and also have this thing.
So let's change this thing to permissions page.
All users queries not too fine.
Okay, now we're back in business.
We'll go back here, we got to write this query here.
So say const all_users_query is equals to
we need to import gql.
So we'll go ahead and write a query.
That's going to query all of our users and from each user
we wanna return the ID, the name, the email
and the permissions of that specific user.
Lowercase p on that, and now that we have
this query running, are you able to refresh.
Gql is not defined, I don't know how to type!
There we go, shoot has permissions is not a function.
Flip back to the back end here.
Const has permissions, is that not called
has permission S?
So take off the S there.
And take off the S here.
Out read property permissions of undefined,
and the reason why this is happening is
because we are passing the user to the has permission,
and then if we open up our utils it's looking
for user.permissions.
But one thing that we actually forgot to do,
I forgot to do is that, we never populated the user
on every thing or request.
We only are populating the users ID
and if you remember back, way back a couple videos ago.
How did we actually populate the users ID
on every single request?
We'll use a little bit of Express middleware.
So we can write another piece of Express middleware
that's going to populate the user on every single request.
So let's do that now.
I think it's in index.js, here we go and then this is
where we decoded the JWT.
So we can put the user ID on each request
and we just popped a little bit of middleware in there
where we decoded that and put it
on the request and called next.
So what we're going to do here is the second piece
of middleware is create a middleware
that populates the user on each request
cause we want access to the user on each request,
if they are logged in.
Pretty simple,
so we will take the server.express.use.
That takes in a request, a response, and a next
and first thing I say, if they aren't logged in
skip this, so if there is no quest that user ID,
just call next.
And we actually want to return next because
then we want this function from stop running.
Otherwise we're going to query them.
So set const the user is equal to a weight.
So we should actually mark this as a sync,
if we're gonna use a weight and we're gonna use the db.
Remember we imported the database up here.
Database.query.user
and the where of the user is going
to be equal to the ID is the request.userID.
So we're gonna find a user where the ID is equal
to the request ID which we populated
in the previous middleware and we're awaiting it.
And then we also need to pass you know
that these queries here take two arguments.
First, the where query but second, we need to know
what fields we're gonna be grabbing.
So we can just pass that in single ticks
and this can just be a graph QL query.
We want the ID of the user, we want the permissions
of the user, we want the email
and we want the name of the user.
Then if we, let's just console.log the user
and hit next.
A bet on every single request that we have now,
we're going to see the information about these are,
if you are signed in.
There we go, so every single request that you have
it's gonna hit the database real quick
and grab the current user that we're looking for.
And then we see the permissions.
The last thing we need to do to get rid
of this cannot read permissions on to find.
Is you need to put this user
on the request much like we did right here.
So simply say a request.user is equal to user
and then call next.
Give that a save, and a bet now if your refresh this page,
now it actually worked.
But now it tells us we do not have submission,
sufficient permissions and min permission,
update, you have user.
So that's fine, but this is a bit of a chicken
and the egg problem because like how are you going
to get permission update or admin,
if you don't have the interface?
And how will you build the interface
if you don't have the administrative privileges?
So what I like to do for this is you can
either like write some code where the first person
who signs up for this application is an admin
and you could you could do that when you sign up.
You query all the users, and if there are no existing users
then that person is the admin or you can just manually
go into your database and add that in as you need to.
And that's exactly what I'm going to do here.
So we're going to go into Sick Fits, I'm going
to find myself and you see that my permissions
already has user in it because that was the default
that we put in the signup mutation.
I'm also going to add in the admin.
So go ahead and update.
Now if i refresh this.
(laughing) one more error, all kinds of trouble here.
Shoot ctx.db.users is not a function.
So let's go back to our query here,ctx.bd.
I think it is not ctx.db
and of course, it's ctx.db.query.users.
And will this be it?
Will it be it?
It works, awesome,so we are returning users.
Now we can head back to our front end
which is our permissions here and we should be able
to go in here and console.log, the data,
or, or and this is that little trick again
if you console log data or, or, it will still return
this data here.
But more importantly console.log the data that we have here.
So let's see if that works, open up your dev tools.
Give it a refresh, you'll see that under permissions
on line 18 or console logging the users
that gives us an array and in every single one
you see the email, the ID, the name
and the actual permissions.
Good, so let's write a little bit of code just
to loop over those users so we can actually
get them visually showing up.
Give yourself a div H1 tag, manage permissions.
We are going to use a style table
that I've already created for you.
So let's jump up to the top of this file
and import the capital T table
from the styled components directory.
And then we'll go down here
and give ourselves a capital T table,
inside of that you need a T head,
inside of that you need a table of row,
inside of that you need a TH.
Aren't you glad we don't have to do tables anymore?
This is a nightmare.
Name, email
and then we'll go down right below T head
and give ourselves a T body.
And we'll take the data.users
and map over it, and for each user.
Let's just return the user.name just to dump it
on the page, make sure it's working.
There we go, we've got the name and the email
and then you see Wesbos, Wesbos, Wesbos, dog lover.
Now the other thing that we need, you can see
that here we need to have a heading
for every single permission that we possibly have.
So what I'm going to do is make a quick little array
of all of the possible permissions.
We could also write a query here to query this
from the back end, a list of possible permissions
and then that query would return a list of them
and we could loop over it.
But find it's easier just
to maintain an array of possible permissions.
So we'll go here and I'm going to paste it
in const possible permissions equal
it's an array of admin user.
I don't create, update, delete and permission update.
Those are the ones that we're using in this tutorial.
You can make up your own.
Additionally just make sure that you mirror them
to the enum that we we did on the back end.
So we'll go back over here or underneath the email
and we'll take the possible permissions
and map over those.
Take each permission and from each permission,
we're just gonna return a TH that has the permission
in it.
There we go, so name, email and then a heading
for each of the possible permissions.
And then we're going to have a final TH.
Just as a pointing down emoji or an arrow
or something that's going to be this one right here
because we need another row for our update.
All right that's looking pretty good and now we need
to like fix this right here where
we're mapping over the users.
And rather than map over every single user right inside
of this, there's going to be a lot of logic
that's involved with updating their permissions.
So we're going to kick off that
to a separate component which we'll create right here.
So we'll say class user extends react component.
Right now we just have a render, which is going
to return a TR as we return a table row inside
of the table body for every single user that we have.
And then inside of that we just need to have some TD,
table datas that will match up with all
of the table headings, name, email, each permission
and then a button to update.
So let's say here we'll say
const user is equal this.props.user
and then inside of here, let's just put the user.name
and the user.email.
Then we should be able to map over this.
For each user we're gonna render out a user component
that has a user prop passed in.
And it's yelling at me here,
your render method should have a return statement.
You should know how to spell return, there we go.
Hey, look at this!
Okay, so this is the heading part that we did,
and then these are each of the table rows.
And now what we need to do
is loop over the users permissions and put checkboxes
for if they have those things or not.
So we'll take each of the possible permissions
and we'll map over those again,
and for each permission we are going to return
a TD.
Then inside of that of a label
and this is gonna be calculated since it's going
to be unique to the user and the permission.
So you can use curly brackets and backticks in there
and we're going to use
the user.id
a dash permission dash
the actual permission that we're looping over here in that,
and then inside of the label.
We're just going to give ourselves an input with the type
of checkbox.
And we're gonna have a whole bunch of properties,
on this input that are going to allow us
to update the user's permissions
and save it in state locally.
That's gonna be in the next video, but right now,
this is getting a little bit confusing.
So I wanna make sure that we've got all on the page here.
There we go, we've got all
of the different users checkboxes showing up.
Finally below this loop, we want low
and last TD inside of that.
We want to give ourselves a sick button, I think I given.
Yeah, we have a sick button.
Let's import that import sick button
and go down here.
It solves a sick
button
that says update.
Bam, so this doesn't do anything yet, we have
to code a whole lot of logic in mutations in here.
But so far what we did in this video, is we've queried
all the possible users, we did a whole bunch
of work on the back end to make sure that if anyone
is running this query they do have access
to be able to run this query.
We take it, and we can actually delete that.
We are checking for errors in splaying if there are any
and then we take all the possible permissions
to loop over them.
We take all of the users and loop over them,
and then for each user we loop over the possible permissions
and output a checkbox.
Now we're going to set those to checked
and unchecked depending on, if they have
that permission or not
and then we're gonna write the mutations, so that
when someone clicks on update, it will go to the back end
and perform that mutation.
So hopefully you got that one, we'll see you next video